README.md, before:

PiClock
=======

Simple Clock for the Raspberry Pi, using OpenVG for its output

Checkout
--------

Checkout this project by:

```shell
        # Install git if you don't already have it
	sudo apt-get install git
        # Checkout the main project and it's submodules
	git clone --recursive https://github.com/simonhyde/PiClock.git
```

Build
-----

1. First you'll need to install some dependencies (ntpdate is only suggested for runtime):

```shell
	sudo apt-get install libjpeg-dev ntpdate ttf-dejavu libboost-program-options-dev libboost-system-dev libssl-dev libmagick++-dev libb64-dev
```

2. Change to the directory you checked the code out into; probably:
	
```shell
	cd PiClock
```

3. Compile:
	
```shell
	make
```

4. Run:

```shell
	./piclock
```


Failed to add service
---------------------
If you get this error when launching PiClock:
```
	* failed to add service - already in use?
```

You'll need to comment out the following line with a hash:
```
	dtoverlay=vc4-fkms-v3d
```

Clock Unsynchronised
--------------------

When ntp notices a large jump in time (such as when first booting up the Raspberry Pi), it tells clients it is not synchronised for quite a while (many minutes). To work around this, I run ntpdate to manually crash in the time whenever a new network connection is started up, closing down and then re-starting the main NTP daemon whilst this happens. To do this I have a slightly modified ntpdate script in if-up.d, you can install this update script by:

1. Make sure ntpdate is installed:

```shell
	sudo apt-get install ntpdate
```

2. Copy in new script:
	
```shell
	sudo cp if-up.d-ntpdate /etc/network/if-up.d/ntpdate
```

Running at startup
------------------

To configure this to run at startup, I did the following:

1. Add a new user to run the clock:

```shell
	sudo adduser --disabled-password piclock
	sudo usermod --append --groups spi,video piclock
```

2. Make the user profile run the clock:

```shell
	sudo editor ~piclock/.bashrc

	# And add a line to the end, something like: /home/pi/PiClock/piclock
```

3. Make the system auto-login as the piclock user:

```shell
	sudo editor /etc/systemd/system/autologin@.service
```

  and change:

```
	ExecStart=-/sbin/agetty --autologin pi --noclear %I $TERM
```

  to:

```
	ExecStart=-/sbin/agetty --autologin piclock --noclear %I $TERM
```

Switching to Read Only SD Card
------------------------------

Once you've got everything working, you may want to make the SD card read-only, to prevent future corruption/wearing out the SD card. Instructions for this can be found at https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/viewtopic.php?p=213440

Commit message:

Fixup messages around Raspberry Pi 4

README.md, after:

PiClock
=======

Simple Clock for the Raspberry Pi, using OpenVG for its output

Please note, this software doesn't currently support the Raspberry Pi 4

Checkout
--------

Checkout this project by:

```shell
        # Install git if you don't already have it
	sudo apt-get install git
        # Checkout the main project and it's submodules
	git clone --recursive https://github.com/simonhyde/PiClock.git
```

Build
-----

1. First you'll need to install some dependencies (ntpdate is only suggested for runtime):

```shell
	sudo apt-get install libjpeg-dev ntpdate ttf-dejavu libboost-program-options-dev libboost-system-dev libssl-dev libmagick++-dev libb64-dev
```

2. Change to the directory you checked the code out into; probably:
	
```shell
	cd PiClock
```

3. Compile:
	
```shell
	make
```

4. Run:

```shell
	./piclock
```


Failed to add service
---------------------
If you get this error when launching PiClock:
```
	* failed to add service - already in use?
```

Then you're probably using a Raspberry Pi 4. This software doesn't currently
support the Raspberry Pi 4 (because the Raspberry Pi 4 doesn't support OpenVG).


Clock Unsynchronised
--------------------

When ntp notices a large jump in time (such as when first booting up the Raspberry Pi), it tells clients it is not synchronised for quite a while (many minutes). To work around this, I run ntpdate to manually crash in the time whenever a new network connection is started up, closing down and then re-starting the main NTP daemon whilst this happens. To do this I have a slightly modified ntpdate script in if-up.d, you can install this update script by:

1. Make sure ntpdate is installed:

```shell
	sudo apt-get install ntpdate
```

2. Copy in new script:
	
```shell
	sudo cp if-up.d-ntpdate /etc/network/if-up.d/ntpdate
```

Running at startup
------------------

To configure this to run at startup, I did the following:

1. Add a new user to run the clock:

```shell
	sudo adduser --disabled-password piclock
	sudo usermod --append --groups spi,video piclock
```

2. Make the user profile run the clock:

```shell
	sudo editor ~piclock/.bashrc

	# And add a line to the end, something like: /home/pi/PiClock/piclock
```

3. Make the system auto-login as the piclock user:

```shell
	sudo editor /etc/systemd/system/autologin@.service
```

  and change:

```
	ExecStart=-/sbin/agetty --autologin pi --noclear %I $TERM
```

  to:

```
	ExecStart=-/sbin/agetty --autologin piclock --noclear %I $TERM
```

Switching to Read Only SD Card
------------------------------

Once you've got everything working, you may want to make the SD card read-only, to prevent future corruption/wearing out the SD card. Instructions for this can be found at https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/viewtopic.php?p=213440
