TallyProtocol.md, before:

# Tally Protocol
In a more advanced mode, PiClock is able to connect to a server (or multiple redundant servers) which can deliver tally and layout information to the Pi.

When configured to work in this fashion PiClock will connect to all configured tally servers simultaneously, over a TCP session to the configured port (default 6254). Once connected the PiClock must authenticate itself to the tally servers.

Whilst multiple tally servers are supported, messages from multiple servers are all acted upon. The easiest redundancy model to adopt is for the tally servers to negotiate between each other which will communicate information to the PiClock.

Once authenticated messages are basically one-directional, from the tally server to PiClock. PiClock is expected to acknowledge all commands (with an ACK), or pings (with a PONG).

The server must transmit something to the client at least once every 5 seconds. If a client hears nothing from a server for 5 seconds it assumes the connection is dead and disconnects and attempts to reconnect.


## Message Format
All messages are UTF-8, terminated with a carriage return character (13 decimal). They take the format:

`CMD:ARG1:ARG2:ARG3:...ARGn<CR>`

The number of arguments (if any) vary depending on the command, the PiClock will ignore extra arguments added to the end of the command which it doesn't expect (for example from newer versions of the protocol).

## Display Layout
The PiClock display is made up of 1 or more regions, each region can contain all the information normally displayed on the PiClock. By default the PiClock will have 1 region, and lay things out appropriately in that. Within a given region, PiClock will do its best to lay out your requested clocks and tallies. If the region is portrait (taller than wide), then it will display any analogue clock at the top, followed by any date and/or digital time, and any tally boxes. Regions are configured identically, Region 0 will always contain connection information (MAC address, mapped profile, connection/NTP status) along its bottom line).

## Argument format

Each command can take 0 or more arguments, as discussed above extra arguments will be ignore by the PiClock. Arguments can be a number of formats:

|Type  |Format                                                           |
|------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
|string|Inline UTF-8 formatted string                                    |
|int   |Decimal representation of integer in UTF-8 (or ASCII) string, precision will vary depending on command |
|bool  |An *int* (as above) holding either 0 (for false) or 1 (for true) |
|float |Decimal representation of a floating-point value in UTF-8 (or ASCII) string, always parsed in double precision|
|colour|Hexadecimal representation of a 32-bit RGB in UTF-8/ASCII (basically the same format as HTML colours without the preceding #)
|b64   |Base64 Encoded binary data (currently only used to send images)

## Commands
Commands may refer to the whole display, or to configure a region of the display
### Authentication Commands
Upon first receiving a connection from a Pi, a tally server must respond with an authentication request.
* **CRYPT**

  The CRYPT command (from server to client) should take the format:
  
  ``CRYPT:random_string<CR>``

  where random_string is a random string of characters generated by the server.

  The client should reply to this with an AUTH request.

* **AUTH**
 
  The AUTH command (from client to server) should take the format:
  
  ``AUTH:sha512_digest:mac_addr<CR>``
  
  Where *sha512_digest* is a SHA512 Digest performed on the UTF-8 string formed from a concatenation of random_string (received from the CRYPT request), and a shared secret (ie password) known by both the client and server. *mac_addr* is the MAC address of the Pi hosting PiClock (in hex, with no colons), for use by the server for mapping the client to a particular profile.

  If the authentication is not succesful the server should disconnect the client, otherwise it should progress to sending normal or ping commands.

### Ping Commands
* **PING**

  This should take the format:

  ``PING<CR>``

  it is only sent from Tally Server to Client (PiClock), and the client must respond with a *PONG*

* **PONG**
 
  This should take the format:
  
  ``PONG<CR>``

  it is only sent from Client (PiClock) to Tally Server. The client must send this if and only if a PING is received from the server.

### GPIO Commmands
* **SETGPO**

  This should take the format:

  ``SETGPO:index:value<CR>``

  instructs the remote clock to turn a GPO on or off

  |Argument    |Type   |Description
  |------------|-------|-----------
  |index       |int    |Zero-based GPO index (from 0 to 7). GPOs follow 8 GPIs, so GPO 0 will be on wiringPi pin 8
  |value       |bool   |Whether to turn the GPO on or off


* **GPI**

  This will take the format:

  ``GPI:state<CR>``

  |Argument    |Type   |Description
  |------------|-------|-----------
  |state       |int    |16-bit unsigned integer, with each bit representing the state of a GPI. Currently only the 8 least significant bits are used. The code only reads 8 GPIs, but the protocol supports up to 16 for future growth.

  this is only sent from Client (PiClock) to Tally Server. The client sends this in an unsolicited fashion whenever it notices a GPI/O change or establishes a new connection.



### Normal Response
* **ACK**

  This should be sent by the client in response to any (non ping/authentication) server command it understands:
  
  ``ACK<CR>``
  
* **NACK**

  This should be sent by the client in response to any (non ping/authentication) server command it does not understand:

  ``NACK<CR>``

### Global Commands
Global Commands refer to the whole display area, not individual regions.

* **SETGLOBAL**
  
  ``SETGLOBAL:landscape:screensaver<CR>``
  
  Sets global flags, defaults if no command is ever sent:

  |Argument   |Type   |Default|Description|
  |-----------|-------|-------|-----------|
  |landscape  |bool   |true   |Whether to make the output landscape (true, wider than tall) or portrait (false, taller than wide) |
  |screensaver|bool   |true   |If true, the width and height are shrunk by 5% of the display height, and this shrunken output is slowly moved around the total display area (in an attempt to prevent screen burn).|
  
* **SETPROFILE**
  
  ``SETPROFILE:name<CR>``
  
  Tell the PiClock the name of its current profile (for display next to MAC address at the bottom of the display).

  |Argument    |Type   |Description
  |------------|-------|-----------
  |name        |string |Name to display (cannot contain colon character)
  
* **SETREGIONCOUNT**

  ``SETREGIONCOUNT:count<CR>``
  
  Sets the number of regions that should be handled/displayed

  |Argument    |Type   |Default|Description
  |------------|-------|-------|-----------
  |count       |int    |1      |Number of regions
  
* **STOREFONT**

  ``STOREFONT:name:data<CR>``

  Stores (or updates) a font to be used. This name can then later
  be used by a SETFONTS command.

  |Argument |Type   |Default |Description
  |---------|-------|--------|-----------
  |name     |string |        |Magic string which will be replaced by image
  |data     |b64    |        |Base64 encoded binary data of a font file. TTF formatted data have been tested, but any format supported by FreeType should work.

* **CLEARFONTS**

  ``CLEARFONTS``

  Clears any and all stored fonts.

* **SETFONTS**

  ``SETFONTS:tally:tallyLabel:status:digital:date:hours``

  Sets which fonts to use for the various different parts of the display. Any blank strings,
  or those pointing at font names not already stored with a STOREFONT command will result
  in the default font being used

  |Argument  |Type   |Default |Description
  |----------|-------|--------|-----------
  |tally     |string |Serif   |Font for tally indicators
  |tallyLabel|string |Serif   |Font for tally labels, defaults to the font of 'tally' if unspecified
  |status    |string |Serif   |Font for small status displays at bottom of display
  |digital   |string |Mono    |Font for digital clock/countdowns. This must be a monospaced font (at least for the digits 0-9)
  |date      |string |Serif   |Font for date
  |hours     |string |SansSerif|Font for hour numbers around analogue clock

### Region-Specific Commands
All region commands can be prefixed by a number (an int, in decimal format as a UTF-8 string), specifying the (zero-indexed) region number to which the command refers. If no region number is specified, then the command is interpreted as ``SETREGIONCOUNT:1`` followed by the command itself in Region 0.


* **SETSIZE**

  ``SETSIZE:rows:cols<CR>``
  
  Sets the number of rows of indication tallies to display, and the default number of columns of tallies on each of these rows

  |Argument   |Type   |Default|Description|
  |-----------|-------|-------|-----------|
  |rows       |int    |0      |Number of rows of tally indicators to display |
  |cols       |int    |0      |Default number of columns on each row, this can be overridden for a particular row with the *SETROW* command.|

* **SETROW**
  
  ``SETROW:row:cols<CR>``
  
  Overrides the number of columns on a particular row
  
  |Argument   |Type   |Description
  |-----------|-------|-----------
  |row        |int    |Row number (counting from 0) to set column count on|
  |cols       |int    |Column count for this row|

* **SETTALLY**

  ``SETTALLY:row:col:fg_colour:bg_colour:text<CR>``
  
  Set the tally state of a given indicator box. This will destroy any countdown information for the given indicator box, and revert it to a simple text display.
  
  **NB** *text* can contain the colon ':' character, and so cannot be followed by any further arguments.

  |Argument   |Type   |Description
  |-----------|-------|-----------
  |row        |int    |Row number (counting from 0) of indicator box
  |col        |int    |Column number (counting from 0) of indicator box
  |fg_colour  |colour |Foreground (text) colour
  |bg_colour  |colour |Background colour
  |text       |string |Text to display on indicator box, this text can contain the colon ':' character, meaning no further arguments can follow
  
* **SETLABEL**

  ``SETLABEL:row:col:text<CR>``
  
  Sets the label text to appear above a tally state. NB this has no affect on an indicator box which is in countdown mode (configured by *SETCOUNTDOWN*), only tally mode (configured by *SETTALLY*)

  |Argument   |Type   |Description
  |-----------|-------|-----------
  |row        |int    |Row number (counting from 0) of indicator box
  |col        |int    |Column number (counting from 0) of indicator box
  |text       |string |Text to display on indicator box, this text can contain the colon ':' character, meaning no further arguments can follow
  

* **SETCOUNTDOWN**

  ``SETCOUNTDOWN:row:col:fg_colour:bg_colour:target_secs:target_usecs:flash:label<CR>``

  Sets the given indicator box to show a countdown to the time represented by target_secs and target_usecs

  **NB** *label* can contain the colon ':' character, and so cannot be followed by any further arguments.
  

  |Argument    |Type   |Description
  |------------|-------|-----------
  |row         |int    |Row number (counting from 0) of indicator box
  |col         |int    |Column number (counting from 0) of indicator box
  |fg_colour   |colour |Foreground (text) colour
  |bg_colour   |colour |Background colour
  |target_secs |int64  |Target time (at which countdown will become 0) in number of seconds since 01/01/1970 00:00:00 UTC
  |target_usecs|int    |Any extra fractional seconds to add onto target_secs in microseconds
  |flash       |int    |Flash limit. If this field is empty, then no flash limit is specified, otherwise when *flash* seconds are left before the target time, the indicator will start to flash (by exchanging foreground and background colours) with a frequency of 1Hz
  |label	   |string |Text to display inside inidcator box, above the countdown. This text can contain the colon ':' character, so cannot be followed by any extra arguments

* **SETLAYOUT**

  ``SETLAYOUT:analogue_clock:analogue_clock_local:digital_clock_utc:digital_clock_local:date:date_local:blank:numbers_present:numbers_outside<CR>``

  |Argument              |Type   |Default |Description
  |----------------------|-------|--------|-----------
  |analogue_clock        |bool   |true    |Display an analogue clock
  |analogue_clock_local  |bool   |true    |Make any analogue clock be displayed in the local timezone
  |digital_clock_utc     |bool   |false   |Display a digital clock showing the time in UTC
  |digital_clock_local   |bool   |true    |Display a digital clock showing the time in the local timezone
  |date                  |bool   |true    |Display the date
  |date_local            |bool   |true    |Displayed date is in the local timezone
  |blank                 |string |        |Unused legacy field, left for compatibility with old PiClock devices, can contain anything, will be ignored.
  |numbers_present       |bool   |true    |Show numbers on any analogue clock
  |numbers_outside       |bool   |true    |Show numbers outside any analogue clock (otherwise inside)

* **SETLOCATION**

  ``SETLOCATION:x:y:width:height<CR>``
  
  Sets the location and size of this region. All values are a proportion of the
  display width/height, between 0 and 1. Co-ordinate 0,0 is in the bottom
  left corner and 1,1 is in the top right.

  |Argument |Type   |Default |Description
  |---------|-------|--------|-----------
  |x        |float  |0       |Co-ordinate of left edge of display area
  |y        |float  |0       |Co-ordinate of bottom edge of display area
  |width    |float  |1       |Width of display area of the region
  |height   |float  |1       |Height of display area of the region

* **SETFONTSIZEZONES**

  ``SETFONTSIZEZONES:row0:row1:...<CR>``
  
  Sets the font size zone names for each tally indicator on each row.

  By default PiClock will find the maximum font size that can still display
  the text on all indicators in each region, and use that font size for
  all indicators in each region.

  By setting zone names against individual cells, you can create different
  groups of indicators which are sized separately. All indicators within
  a given zone are sized as above, finding the max font for those indicators.

  Zone names beginning with the letter 'G' are global to all regions, others
  are local to each region, so a zone with the same name in another region
  will be calculated separately.

  Each row description has a comma-separated list of zone names for the
  indicators on that row. Any unspecified indicators, or unspecified rows
  are left in the default (local to a zone) category.

  To leave a given indicator in the default category, simply leave its zone
  empty.

  |Argument |Type   |Default |Description
  |---------|-------|--------|-----------
  |row0     |list   |        |Comma-separated list of zone names for row 0
  |row1     |list   |        |Comma-separated list of zone names for row 1

* **STOREIMAGE**

  ``STOREIMAGE:name:image<CR>``
  
  Stores (or updates) an image to be displayed. Whenever a tally indicator
  has text that equals 'name' then the image in 'image' is drawn instead of
  text (scaled to fit the tally box).

  When images are scaled to a given size they are first scaled using a quick
  algorithm which may look rather aliased, they are then scheduled to be
  re-scaled slowly in the background. Once an image has been scaled to a
  particular size, PiClock will cache the scaled image until that image is
  replaced, CLEARIMAGES is sent, or the program quits.

  |Argument |Type   |Default |Description
  |---------|-------|--------|-----------
  |name     |string |        |Magic string which will be replaced by image
  |image    |b64    |        |Base64 encoded binary data of an image file. JPEG and PNG formatted data have been tested, but any format supported by ImageMagick should work.

* **CLEARIMAGES**

  ``CLEARIMAGES``

  Clears any and all stored images.

## Testing
It's possible to do basic testing of the tally protocol with netcat, however by default any tally info will disappear after five seconds of comms loss (such as not sending PINGs):

`nc -k -l 6254 -C`

Commit message:

Document clock image commands, also allow colours

TallyProtocol.md, after:

# Tally Protocol
In a more advanced mode, PiClock is able to connect to a server (or multiple redundant servers) which can deliver tally and layout information to the Pi.

When configured to work in this fashion PiClock will connect to all configured tally servers simultaneously, over a TCP session to the configured port (default 6254). Once connected the PiClock must authenticate itself to the tally servers.

Whilst multiple tally servers are supported, messages from multiple servers are all acted upon. The easiest redundancy model to adopt is for the tally servers to negotiate between each other which will communicate information to the PiClock.

Once authenticated messages are basically one-directional, from the tally server to PiClock. PiClock is expected to acknowledge all commands (with an ACK), or pings (with a PONG).

The server must transmit something to the client at least once every 5 seconds. If a client hears nothing from a server for 5 seconds it assumes the connection is dead and disconnects and attempts to reconnect.


## Message Format
All messages are UTF-8, terminated with a carriage return character (13 decimal). They take the format:

`CMD:ARG1:ARG2:ARG3:...ARGn<CR>`

The number of arguments (if any) vary depending on the command, the PiClock will ignore extra arguments added to the end of the command which it doesn't expect (for example from newer versions of the protocol).

## Display Layout
The PiClock display is made up of 1 or more regions, each region can contain all the information normally displayed on the PiClock. By default the PiClock will have 1 region, and lay things out appropriately in that. Within a given region, PiClock will do its best to lay out your requested clocks and tallies. If the region is portrait (taller than wide), then it will display any analogue clock at the top, followed by any date and/or digital time, and any tally boxes. Regions are configured identically, Region 0 will always contain connection information (MAC address, mapped profile, connection/NTP status) along its bottom line).

## Argument format

Each command can take 0 or more arguments, as discussed above extra arguments will be ignore by the PiClock. Arguments can be a number of formats:

|Type  |Format                                                           |
|------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
|string|Inline UTF-8 formatted string                                    |
|int   |Decimal representation of integer in UTF-8 (or ASCII) string, precision will vary depending on command |
|bool  |An *int* (as above) holding either 0 (for false) or 1 (for true) |
|float |Decimal representation of a floating-point value in UTF-8 (or ASCII) string, always parsed in double precision|
|colour|Hexadecimal representation of a 32-bit RGB in UTF-8/ASCII (basically the same format as HTML colours without the preceding #)
|b64   |Base64 Encoded binary data (currently only used to send images)

## Commands
Commands may refer to the whole display, or to configure a region of the display
### Authentication Commands
Upon first receiving a connection from a Pi, a tally server must respond with an authentication request.
* **CRYPT**

  The CRYPT command (from server to client) should take the format:
  
  ``CRYPT:random_string<CR>``

  where random_string is a random string of characters generated by the server.

  The client should reply to this with an AUTH request.

* **AUTH**
 
  The AUTH command (from client to server) should take the format:
  
  ``AUTH:sha512_digest:mac_addr<CR>``
  
  Where *sha512_digest* is a SHA512 Digest performed on the UTF-8 string formed from a concatenation of random_string (received from the CRYPT request), and a shared secret (ie password) known by both the client and server. *mac_addr* is the MAC address of the Pi hosting PiClock (in hex, with no colons), for use by the server for mapping the client to a particular profile.

  If the authentication is not succesful the server should disconnect the client, otherwise it should progress to sending normal or ping commands.

### Ping Commands
* **PING**

  This should take the format:

  ``PING<CR>``

  it is only sent from Tally Server to Client (PiClock), and the client must respond with a *PONG*

* **PONG**
 
  This should take the format:
  
  ``PONG<CR>``

  it is only sent from Client (PiClock) to Tally Server. The client must send this if and only if a PING is received from the server.

### GPIO Commmands
* **SETGPO**

  This should take the format:

  ``SETGPO:index:value<CR>``

  instructs the remote clock to turn a GPO on or off

  |Argument    |Type   |Description
  |------------|-------|-----------
  |index       |int    |Zero-based GPO index (from 0 to 7). GPOs follow 8 GPIs, so GPO 0 will be on wiringPi pin 8
  |value       |bool   |Whether to turn the GPO on or off


* **GPI**

  This will take the format:

  ``GPI:state<CR>``

  |Argument    |Type   |Description
  |------------|-------|-----------
  |state       |int    |16-bit unsigned integer, with each bit representing the state of a GPI. Currently only the 8 least significant bits are used. The code only reads 8 GPIs, but the protocol supports up to 16 for future growth.

  this is only sent from Client (PiClock) to Tally Server. The client sends this in an unsolicited fashion whenever it notices a GPI/O change or establishes a new connection.



### Normal Response
* **ACK**

  This should be sent by the client in response to any (non ping/authentication) server command it understands:
  
  ``ACK<CR>``
  
* **NACK**

  This should be sent by the client in response to any (non ping/authentication) server command it does not understand:

  ``NACK<CR>``

### Global Commands
Global Commands refer to the whole display area, not individual regions.

* **SETGLOBAL**
  
  ``SETGLOBAL:landscape:screensaver<CR>``
  
  Sets global flags, defaults if no command is ever sent:

  |Argument   |Type   |Default|Description|
  |-----------|-------|-------|-----------|
  |landscape  |bool   |true   |Whether to make the output landscape (true, wider than tall) or portrait (false, taller than wide) |
  |screensaver|bool   |true   |If true, the width and height are shrunk by 5% of the display height, and this shrunken output is slowly moved around the total display area (in an attempt to prevent screen burn).|
  
* **SETPROFILE**
  
  ``SETPROFILE:name<CR>``
  
  Tell the PiClock the name of its current profile (for display next to MAC address at the bottom of the display).

  |Argument    |Type   |Description
  |------------|-------|-----------
  |name        |string |Name to display (cannot contain colon character)
  
* **SETREGIONCOUNT**

  ``SETREGIONCOUNT:count<CR>``
  
  Sets the number of regions that should be handled/displayed

  |Argument    |Type   |Default|Description
  |------------|-------|-------|-----------
  |count       |int    |1      |Number of regions
  
* **STOREFONT**

  ``STOREFONT:name:data<CR>``

  Stores (or updates) a font to be used. This name can then later
  be used by a SETFONTS command.

  |Argument |Type   |Default |Description
  |---------|-------|--------|-----------
  |name     |string |        |Magic string which will be replaced by image
  |data     |b64    |        |Base64 encoded binary data of a font file. TTF formatted data have been tested, but any format supported by FreeType should work.

* **CLEARFONTS**

  ``CLEARFONTS``

  Clears any and all stored fonts.

* **SETFONTS**

  ``SETFONTS:tally:tallyLabel:status:digital:date:hours``

  Sets which fonts to use for the various different parts of the display. Any blank strings,
  or those pointing at font names not already stored with a STOREFONT command will result
  in the default font being used

  |Argument  |Type   |Default |Description
  |----------|-------|--------|-----------
  |tally     |string |Serif   |Font for tally indicators
  |tallyLabel|string |Serif   |Font for tally labels, defaults to the font of 'tally' if unspecified
  |status    |string |Serif   |Font for small status displays at bottom of display
  |digital   |string |Mono    |Font for digital clock/countdowns. This must be a monospaced font (at least for the digits 0-9)
  |date      |string |Serif   |Font for date
  |hours     |string |SansSerif|Font for hour numbers around analogue clock

### Region-Specific Commands
All region commands can be prefixed by a number (an int, in decimal format as a UTF-8 string), specifying the (zero-indexed) region number to which the command refers. If no region number is specified, then the command is interpreted as ``SETREGIONCOUNT:1`` followed by the command itself in Region 0.


* **SETSIZE**

  ``SETSIZE:rows:cols<CR>``
  
  Sets the number of rows of indication tallies to display, and the default number of columns of tallies on each of these rows

  |Argument   |Type   |Default|Description|
  |-----------|-------|-------|-----------|
  |rows       |int    |0      |Number of rows of tally indicators to display |
  |cols       |int    |0      |Default number of columns on each row, this can be overridden for a particular row with the *SETROW* command.|

* **SETROW**
  
  ``SETROW:row:cols<CR>``
  
  Overrides the number of columns on a particular row
  
  |Argument   |Type   |Description
  |-----------|-------|-----------
  |row        |int    |Row number (counting from 0) to set column count on|
  |cols       |int    |Column count for this row|

* **SETTALLY**

  ``SETTALLY:row:col:fg_colour:bg_colour:text<CR>``
  
  Set the tally state of a given indicator box. This will destroy any countdown information for the given indicator box, and revert it to a simple text display.
  
  **NB** *text* can contain the colon ':' character, and so cannot be followed by any further arguments.

  |Argument   |Type   |Description
  |-----------|-------|-----------
  |row        |int    |Row number (counting from 0) of indicator box
  |col        |int    |Column number (counting from 0) of indicator box
  |fg_colour  |colour |Foreground (text) colour
  |bg_colour  |colour |Background colour
  |text       |string |Text to display on indicator box, this text can contain the colon ':' character, meaning no further arguments can follow
  
* **SETLABEL**

  ``SETLABEL:row:col:text<CR>``
  
  Sets the label text to appear above a tally state. NB this has no affect on an indicator box which is in countdown mode (configured by *SETCOUNTDOWN*), only tally mode (configured by *SETTALLY*)

  |Argument   |Type   |Description
  |-----------|-------|-----------
  |row        |int    |Row number (counting from 0) of indicator box
  |col        |int    |Column number (counting from 0) of indicator box
  |text       |string |Text to display on indicator box, this text can contain the colon ':' character, meaning no further arguments can follow
  

* **SETCOUNTDOWN**

  ``SETCOUNTDOWN:row:col:fg_colour:bg_colour:target_secs:target_usecs:flash:label<CR>``

  Sets the given indicator box to show a countdown to the time represented by target_secs and target_usecs

  **NB** *label* can contain the colon ':' character, and so cannot be followed by any further arguments.
  

  |Argument    |Type   |Description
  |------------|-------|-----------
  |row         |int    |Row number (counting from 0) of indicator box
  |col         |int    |Column number (counting from 0) of indicator box
  |fg_colour   |colour |Foreground (text) colour
  |bg_colour   |colour |Background colour
  |target_secs |int64  |Target time (at which countdown will become 0) in number of seconds since 01/01/1970 00:00:00 UTC
  |target_usecs|int    |Any extra fractional seconds to add onto target_secs in microseconds
  |flash       |int    |Flash limit. If this field is empty, then no flash limit is specified, otherwise when *flash* seconds are left before the target time, the indicator will start to flash (by exchanging foreground and background colours) with a frequency of 1Hz
  |label	   |string |Text to display inside inidcator box, above the countdown. This text can contain the colon ':' character, so cannot be followed by any extra arguments

* **SETLAYOUT**

  ``SETLAYOUT:analogue_clock:analogue_clock_local:digital_clock_utc:digital_clock_local:date:date_local:blank:numbers_present:numbers_outside<CR>``

  |Argument              |Type   |Default |Description
  |----------------------|-------|--------|-----------
  |analogue_clock        |bool   |true    |Display an analogue clock
  |analogue_clock_local  |bool   |true    |Make any analogue clock be displayed in the local timezone
  |digital_clock_utc     |bool   |false   |Display a digital clock showing the time in UTC
  |digital_clock_local   |bool   |true    |Display a digital clock showing the time in the local timezone
  |date                  |bool   |true    |Display the date
  |date_local            |bool   |true    |Displayed date is in the local timezone
  |blank                 |string |        |Unused legacy field, left for compatibility with old PiClock devices, can contain anything, will be ignored.
  |numbers_present       |bool   |true    |Show numbers on any analogue clock
  |numbers_outside       |bool   |true    |Show numbers outside any analogue clock (otherwise inside)
  |seconds_sweep         |bool   |false   |Continuously sweep seconds hand instead of moving it quickly just before second changes.
  |image_clock_face      |string |        |Image name (already stored with STOREIMAGE) to use for the clock face instead of a vector drawn clock. Centre of image must be the centre of the clockface.
  |image_clock_hours     |string |        |Image name (already stored with STOREIMAGE) to use for the clock hand instead of a vector hand, or a colour code in the format '#000000' for the vector drawn hand. The hand must go up vertically in this image, with the centre of the image being the pivot point at the centre of the clockface.
  |image_clock_minutes   |string |        |Image name (already stored with STOREIMAGE) to use for the clock hand instead of a vector hand, or a colour code in the format '#000000' for the vector drawn hand. The hand must go up vertically in this image, with the centre of the image being the pivot point at the centre of the clockface.
  |image_clock_seconds   |string |        |Image name (already stored with STOREIMAGE) to use for the clock hand instead of a vector hand, or a colour code in the format '#000000' for the vector drawn hand. The hand must go up vertically in this image, with the centre of the image being the pivot point at the centre of the clockface.

* **SETLOCATION**

  ``SETLOCATION:x:y:width:height<CR>``
  
  Sets the location and size of this region. All values are a proportion of the
  display width/height, between 0 and 1. Co-ordinate 0,0 is in the bottom
  left corner and 1,1 is in the top right.

  |Argument |Type   |Default |Description
  |---------|-------|--------|-----------
  |x        |float  |0       |Co-ordinate of left edge of display area
  |y        |float  |0       |Co-ordinate of bottom edge of display area
  |width    |float  |1       |Width of display area of the region
  |height   |float  |1       |Height of display area of the region

* **SETFONTSIZEZONES**

  ``SETFONTSIZEZONES:row0:row1:...<CR>``
  
  Sets the font size zone names for each tally indicator on each row.

  By default PiClock will find the maximum font size that can still display
  the text on all indicators in each region, and use that font size for
  all indicators in each region.

  By setting zone names against individual cells, you can create different
  groups of indicators which are sized separately. All indicators within
  a given zone are sized as above, finding the max font for those indicators.

  Zone names beginning with the letter 'G' are global to all regions, others
  are local to each region, so a zone with the same name in another region
  will be calculated separately.

  Each row description has a comma-separated list of zone names for the
  indicators on that row. Any unspecified indicators, or unspecified rows
  are left in the default (local to a zone) category.

  To leave a given indicator in the default category, simply leave its zone
  empty.

  |Argument |Type   |Default |Description
  |---------|-------|--------|-----------
  |row0     |list   |        |Comma-separated list of zone names for row 0
  |row1     |list   |        |Comma-separated list of zone names for row 1

* **STOREIMAGE**

  ``STOREIMAGE:name:image<CR>``
  
  Stores (or updates) an image to be displayed. Whenever a tally indicator
  has text that equals 'name' then the image in 'image' is drawn instead of
  text (scaled to fit the tally box).

  When images are scaled to a given size they are first scaled using a quick
  algorithm which may look rather aliased, they are then scheduled to be
  re-scaled slowly in the background. Once an image has been scaled to a
  particular size, PiClock will cache the scaled image until that image is
  replaced, CLEARIMAGES is sent, or the program quits.

  |Argument |Type   |Default |Description
  |---------|-------|--------|-----------
  |name     |string |        |Magic string which will be replaced by image
  |image    |b64    |        |Base64 encoded binary data of an image file. JPEG and PNG formatted data have been tested, but any format supported by ImageMagick should work.

* **CLEARIMAGES**

  ``CLEARIMAGES``

  Clears any and all stored images.

## Testing
It's possible to do basic testing of the tally protocol with netcat, however by default any tally info will disappear after five seconds of comms loss (such as not sending PINGs):

`nc -k -l 6254 -C`
